In 1998 legendary rapper DMX together with RnB icon Mary J. Blige in their song
"Coming from" famously asked: "If I don't know where I'm coming from, where
would I go?", thusly highlighting the importance of solving the global
localisation problem in mobile robotics before initiating any navigation
actions. The current solutions to the problem of localising a robot without
prior knowledge of its whereabouts, also known as global localisation, fall
into one of two categories. In the first category belong methods which are
robust against noise and arbitrariness of environment but which require motion
and time. One the other hand those of the second category take minimal
estimation time but they make assumptions about the structure of the
environment, they are sensitive to noise, and demand preprocessing and tuning.
However, the problem in the real world is that everything is uncertain, and WE
want approaches which work out of the box, with accurate results that can be
repeated reliably.  That's where CBGL comes in. CBGL is a method that works
with 2D LIDARs in 2D maps, that makes the minimum number of assumptions
possible: it only requires the map and one sensor measurement. It does not
require motion to work, nor does it assume specific environmental structure or
structures.  CBGL's properties rest on the Cumulative Absolute Error per Ray
metric, which has minimal computational complexity, and whose value scales with
increasing position and orientational errors.  In real world experiments, in a
typical environment of 180 meters squared, using a real sensor with a noisy
map, and over 6000 measurements, CBGL estimated the sensor's position with an
accuracy of less than fifty centimeters for over 99 percent of the inputs, with
an average execution time of less than two seconds. In experiments with
synthetic data, where we deliberately decreased the maximum radial range of the
sensor AND its angular field of view, where we increased its measurement noise,
and placed it in environments with repeated room structure, CBGL provided the
lowest position and orientation errors, as well as the highest number of poses
with less than 50 centimeters of positional error compared to other
state-of-the-art Monte Carlo methods. You can try CBGL today for free by
downloading its Docker container and running it on your robot. Thank you for
your time.
